The post has just arrived and in it a very nice surprise, the discovery that Jacques Seguela, one-time adviser to President Mitterrand, now close confidant of President and Madame Sarkozy (indeed he intoduced them), and something of a legend in French political communications, has dedicated his latest book to little old moi.

With apologies for the missing accents here and in the French bits of the long posting which follows – the dedication to ‘Le Pouvoir dans la Peau‘ (Power in the skin) reads ‘A Alastair Campbell, mon spin doctor prefere’ (three missing accents in one word – mes excuses sinceres).

So what did I do for this honour, you are asking? Well, perhaps the fact that he asked me to read his book, and write a ‘postface’ assessment both of his writing and of the issues he covers, and the fact that I said yes, has something to do with it. He says some blushmakingly kind things in his ‘preface to the postface’, which I will have to leave to French readers of the whole thing (published by Plon). But for the largely Anglophone visitors of this blog, I thought some of you might like to read the said ‘postface’ in English (apart from the bits where I quote direct from his book). I hope all those students who write asking for help with dissertations will find something quotable in it.

Meanwhile I am off to Norway for a conference and a meeting with the Norwegian Labour Party. I’m looking forward to being in the country with the highest ‘human development index’ in the world, and which showed such a mature response to the recent massacre of Oslo and Utoya.

Here is the postface to Le Pouvoir dans la Peau

Jacques Seguela writes about political campaigns and communications not merely as an expert analyst, but as an experienced practitioner. Hence his latest book contains both insights worth heeding, but also enlivening tales of his own experience. He is observer and participant; outsider looking in, and insider looking out.  There is much to look at, not least in France with a Presidential election looming, and the outcome far from easy to predict.

We live in a world defined by the pace of change, and whilst the velocity of that change has not always impacted upon our political institutions, many of which would remain recognisable to figures of history, it most certainly has impacted upon political communications. As Seguela writes: ‘En 5 ans le monde de la communication a plus evolue que dans les cents dernieres annees. ‘ Google, Youtube, Twitter, Facebook have quickly entered our language and changed the way we communicate, live our private lives, do business, do politics. People do not believe politicians as much as they once did. Nor do they believe the media. So who do we believe? We believe each other. The power and the political potential of social networks flows from that reality. Though fiercely modern in their application, social networks in some ways take us back to the politics of the village square. They are an electronic word of mouth on a sometimes global scale. This has changed the way people interact with each other and with their politicians.

My first campaign as spokesman and strategist for Tony Blair was in 1997, three years in the planning after he had become leader of the Opposition  Labour Party. Some of the principles of strategy we applied back then would certainly apply to a modern day election. But their tactical execution almost certainly would not. Politicians and their strategists have to adapt to change as well as lead it. Seguela gives some interesting insights into those who have adapted well, and those who have done less well. He clearly adores former President Lula of Brazil and you can feel his yearning for a French leader who can somehow combine hard-headed strategy with human empathy in the same way as a man who left office with satisfaction ratings of 87percent. Seguela probably remains best known in political circles for his role advising Francois Mitterrand. Yet wheras I am ‘tribal Labour’, and could not imagine supporting a Conservative Party candidate in the UK, Seguela came out as a major supporter of Nicolas Sarkozy. I wonder if one of the reasons was not a frustration that large parts of the left in France remain eternally suspicious of modern communications techniques and styles which, frankly, no modern leader in a modern democracy can ignore. How he or she adapts to, or uses, them is up to them. But you cannot stand aside and imagine the world has not changed.

If Lula is a star of this book, so too is Barack Obama. American elections are of enormous interest to all political campaign junkies, a category in which both Seguela and I would almost certainly qualify. Much is made of Obama’s use of the internet, a relatively new phenomenon in historical terms and one the young Senator used brilliantly in his quest to become President. Yet though it was an accurate expression of his modernity, underpinning its use were some very old-fashioned campaign principles. He used it to turn supporters into activists who both gave funds and also took his campaign materials and ideas and ran their own campaigns for him. Somehow he managed to make one of the most professional, most disciplined and best funded campaigns in history look like an enormous act of democratic participation.

It was less command and control – the model we certainly adopted in 1997 and 2001, Labour’s two landslide victories, easing off a little for our third win in 2005 – than ‘inspire and empower.’  ‘Yes we can’ not ‘yes I can’. His supporters were more than supporters. They were an active part of the campaign, and of the message. The key to this was something that had nothing to do with politicians and everything to do with science, technology and the internet. Ask me who has had the most influence on campaigns in recent times and I might be tempted to reply Tim Berners-Lee, the man credited with gifting the web to the world. Its implications have been far reaching in virtually all aspects of our lives, politics and political campaigns foremost. The new household brand names of the cyber era have not replaced good policy work, messaging and organisation. But they have become essential components of the execution of them in the campaign. Mainstream conventional media remains important and influential, not least because, bizarrely, in most democracies the broadcasters continue to let the press set their agenda for them. But a candidate who tries to stand against the tide of new media will be making a big mistake, and missing big opportunities. If it has changed so much in the last five years, how much more will it change in the next five years?

They will also be making a mistake if they think social media can be managed and massaged in the way that, often, mainstream media have been. The key – on this I agree totally with Seguela –  is authenticity. And that should be good news for authentic political leaders and an authenticity hungry public alike.

The public tend to get to the point of an election. Seguela has an interesting account of the last UK election and in particular the first ever televised Leaders’ Debates. Though I had worked on three campaigns for Tony Blair, I am sufficiently tribally Labour to have answered a call from his successor, Gordon Brown, to go back to help him for his first election campaign as leader in 2011. One of the roles I ended up playing was that of David Cameron in Brown’s preparatory sessions for the TV debates. These debates mattered, that much was sure. Election planning for Blair, I had always been doubtful about the benefit of such debates in a Parliamentary democracy where our leaders meet each other week in week out in the crucible of the House of Commons. I was worried the media would make them all about themselves, and that the policy issues would be drowned out. So it proved. Yet in a way the public did get to the point they wanted to. They did not particularly want Labour back after 13 years in power. They did not particularly yearn for David Cameron and a Conservative Party unsure about its direction. So the third party leader emerged through the middle. Nick Clegg was judged the clear winner by the instant reactions of public and media alike. For a few days he seemed impregnable. Yet come the vote, he did not make a huge breakthrough. It was only because neither Labour nor the Tories could get over the line that Clegg ended up as deputy Prime Minister in a coalition government. The country had not been able to make its mind up, delivered a muddled result and asked the leaders to sort it out. The leader who came first and the leader who came third did a deal to do so.

I think Seguela is too kind to Cameron. Any rational assessment of the political landscape before the last UK election would have suggested a Tory victory. Labour in power a long time; the economic crash; a Parliament dominated by a scandal involving MPs’ expenses; Iraq back in the news because of the official Inquiry; Afghanistan not going well; the press even more strongly in favour of a Tory win than they had been for a Labour win in 1997, and vicious about Brown. Also the Tories had big money to spend on the campaign and Labour did not. Yet Cameron could not secure a majority. Why not? There is no simple answer. The wonder of democracy lies in millions of people having their own experiences, impressions and judgements before deciding how to cast their vote. But the strategist in me says the simple answer is that Cameron lacked real strategic clarity. I think Sequela would agree that for all the changes that technological and mediatic change has forced upon political campaigns, strategy remains the key. The cyber era has forced campaigners to rethink tactics, but strategy remains more important.

He and I are clearly in agreement that John McCain’s appointment of Sarah Palin as running mate, for example, was a tactical masterstroke, but a strategic catastrophe. Tactically, he excited his base, gave the media a new toy, and momentarily unnnerved his opponent. Strategically he blew a hole through the two central planks of his campaign – experience, and being different from George Bush. In putting tactics before strategy, he broke one of the golden rules of campaigning.

Strategists like rules. We like points of principle to act as anchors. I like the rules in Seguela’s Chapter 5.

On vote pour une idee. Pas pour une ideologie.

On vote pour soi. Pas pour son candidat.

On vote pour un homme. Pas pour un parti.

On vote pour le professionalisme. Pas pour l’amateurisme.

On vote pour un projet pas pour le rejet.

On vote pour le coeur. Pas pour le rancoeur.

On vote pour le futur. Pas pour le passe.

On vote pour le bcbg. Pas pour le bling bling.

It is charmingly French that he illuminates the rule about voting for le couer pas pour le rancour to a tale of love and sex. ‘Si votre femme vous trompe, ce n’est pas en couvrant d’insulte son amant que vous le reconquerez. Mais en lui redonnant envie de vous. La mecanique electorale est le meme, se faire elire c’est se faire preferer.’ That may seem glib. But politics is a human business. It is about feelings as well as policies, emotion as well as reason. People often talk about their political leaders as though in a relationship with them. ‘He’s not listening … Why on earth did he do that? … I’ve gone off him … Oh, I still like him deep down.’ Political leaders sometimes talk of the people in the same way. How many times did I sit in the back of a car with Tony Blair, or fly over Britain in a ‘plane and he would look down and say ‘God, I wish I knew what they were thinking … Do they still like us?’ Back at the time of our first landslide, talk of the country ‘falling in love’ with Blair was widespread. Today, the biggest accusations of betrayal against Blair will often come from those who ‘fell in love’ most deeply at the outset of his leadership. Perhaps this trend towards relationship politics is being exacerbated by the tendency towards younger leaders. Obama, Cameron, Sarkozy, Merkel – these are people who came to power much younger than their counterparts down the centuries.

Seguela, a man of a certain age, remains fascinated by youth and its impact. The brand manager in him can barely disguise his glee that Coca Cola, the drink of the young trendy, is 130 years old. You can sense the excitement he felt on meeting the young Americans – not born when Seguela was advising Mitterrand – who had developed Obama’s digital strategy and so helped deliver a mailing list of 13m people. The focus on youth also dominates his analysis of the political consequences of the economic crash whose impact runs through these pages, and offers some fascinating factoids – half of all Europeans are over 50, whilst three quarters of Algerians are under 25. There are as many people under 30 in China as in Russia, the US and Australia combined, and in India twice as many as in China. That too is a powerful force of global change, and will have its impact on Western politics of the future.

As to what it all means for the next French elections, I don’t know. But this book provides part of the backdrop, economic and political. It should make interesting reading for anyone involved in that campaign. Whilst clearly still of the view Sarkozy was and is the right choice for France, (though the polls at the time of writing indicate he is in a minority) he throws out ideas and challenges for right and left alike. As traditional lines are drawn, careful reading might provoke candidates and parties to see that they should always be looking to the next new ideas, not merely repackaging the last new, let alone the old.

I was in Paris recently as a guest of the left think tank, Terra Nova, and met politicians, advisors, militants, experts, journalists and bloggers. I came away with some strong impressions. Firstly, virtually everyone told me that President Sarkozy was hugely unpopular, and his ratings as low as it was possible to go. Yet many of the same people told me he could still win. They know he relishes a campaign. They suspect he may have learned from some mistakes. Incumbency is a powerful weapon. A comeback is a powerful narrative. And they worried that with the President so unpopular, the economy sluggish, social issues raw, and the left in power in many parts of France, the PS should have been doing far better in the polls (to which, incidentally, French politicians and media pay far too much attention.)

Of course this was pre selection of a PS candidate. Many of the Socialists agreed with my analysis that once they had chosen the candidate, they needed to unite behind that candidate, resist their historic predilection for factionalism, run a campaign that was fresh, energetic and based upon a programme totally focused on the future and one which addressed people’s concerns. They agreed too that the PS could no longer look down its nose at communication, but had to see it not just as an essential element of campaigning, but a democratic duty at a time when people have so many pressures on their lives and living standards, and concerns about the world around them. But though they agreed with the analysis, some worried about the Party’s capacity to deliver upon it. The fear of another defeat ought to be enough, surely, to deliver on the first and essential part: unity. As someone on the progressive side of the political divide, I continue to think the French left’s over intellectualisation of politics, its focus on never-ending debate instead of agreement around big points and unity behind one accepted leader remains a problem.

I added that I felt the way was wide open for someone to come along and set out, with total honesty and clarity, the challenges ahead, the limitations of what one leader or one country can do, but explain the world and begin to shape direction. In other words, what I sensed behind the seeming confusion and rather disgruntled nature of French opinion was a real desire for leadership of a strategic rather than a tactical nature. There too, there were concerns, not least because of memories of the negative impact on Lionel Jospin’s campaign when he stated – truthfully – that the State could not do everything.

I heard a lot about Marine Le Pen and certainly the polls tell a good story for the leader of the Front National. She has certainly shown she can mount a campaign and get the media to accept a sense of change. When even her enemies refer to as Marine, rather than the more toxic Le Pen, that is something of a success. But whenever I have heard her, I have not heard a powerful argument for the future of France.

So France enters a fascinating period, where not one single person I met predicted the outcome of either first or second round without at least some doubt in their eyes. When things are so tight, communications can make the difference. It is not a dirty word.

I don’t agree with all of Seguela’s analysis. I don’t accept that only four US presidents radically changed the country. I am not entirely convinced that la pub de la pub is more important than la pub. I am not sure that David Cameron’s loss of a child had the political impact Seguela thinks it did. I think Brits will be also be surprised at the dominant role he gives in the Tory campaign to his colleague David Jones. I think he overstates how Sarkozy is seen in the world. I agree with him that we need to be cautious about the potential abuse of the internet which has no global governance or regulation to match, but I’m not sure I agree this risks being  ‘en bras arme de l’anarchie’. But it is a book full of understanding of some of the big themes and the small details required for a successful campaigning mindset.

He is, as one would expect for someone who has been close to different leaders, clued up on the importance of good chemistry between leader and strategist. He understands the importance of body language as well as language. He knows the importance of emotion as well as reason. He understands how the web is changing politics. One of my favourite phrases is that ‘life is on the record’. He has a different way of putting it. ‘Le “off” n’existe plus desormais. Tout ce que vous direz pourra se retourner contre vous.’ It is why the whole ‘droit d’etre oublie’ is emerging as a debate. How many of the young men and women today filling the web with pictures and confessions from their private lives may end up running for office one day, and regretting their openness? On verra.

Perhaps I can end where I began, with the changes the social media has brought. At the last election Labour did not do poster campaigns. This was a shame. In previous campaigns we had had some brilliant posters. But under Gordon Brown, we had very little money for the campaign. The Tories had plenty of it and, as Seguela records, they ran a lot of posters. One of their most expensive billboard campaigns was of a giant photo of Cameron with an anti-Labour slogan ‘we can’t go on like this.’ Someone noticed that the Tory leader’s face had been airbrushed. This fact became the source of thousands of tweets. Then someone set up a website mydavidcameron.com where people could send their own, largely anti-Tory, versions of this poster. These were sent in in their thousands, and many were much better, wittier and more politically devastating than the original. I’ll tell you when I knew they had wasted their money – when the newspapers carried photos of one giant poster site which had been defaced … Cameron’s hair had been replaced with a painted version of Elvis Presley’s hair, and to the slogan ‘we can’t go on like this’ had been added the words of one of Elvis’ most famous songs … ‘with suspicious minds’. The combination of the internet and wit had reduced the political impact of a hugely expensive campaign to zero. That is my final thought as you begin to read Jacques Seguela’s account. It is a quote from a former colleague, Labour MP Hazel Blears … ‘Campaigning is like sex. If you’re not enjoying it, you’re not doing it properly.’

In the fifteenth and sixteenth centuries, European nations began to claim different regions in the New World. Using new sea technologies such as the astrolabe and improved navigation techniques, Europeans sought new trade routes to the Indian Ocean and Asia. Sailing west and finding new continents instead, the Europeans soon realized the economic potential of the Americas. The Spanish, French, and British each took a unique approach to how they utilized the New World territories in which they settled, resulting in distinct and profound patterns of social development.
The Spanish had two major goals: to gain wealth and to spread Catholicism to the native populations. Realizing the potential to mine precious metals and profit from large-scale agriculture, the Spanish forced American Indians into labor, such as through the encomienda system. Violence and deception were often used to subdue the indigenous populations, aided by the technological superiority of European weapons and the spread of devastating diseases. Although some Spanish came as missionaries with the goal of converting American Indians to Christianity and often protested the abusive treatment of the American Indians, even missions sometimes essentially forced labor and coerced assimilation to Spanish culture. In the long term, a hierarchical social structure developed in the Spanish colonies in which the Spanish-born and their descendants (peninsulares and creoles) dominated those of mixed background (mestizos and mulattos) and especially those of pure African or American Indian heritage. Overall, millions perished between disease and mistreatment, devastatingly weakening traditional cultures but enriching the Spanish.

The French differed from the Spanish in their relationship with the indigenous populations. Using the St. Lawrence River for transportation and trade, the French profited from trading fur pelts, particularly beaver, with the American Indians, and then sending the pelts to Europe. These traders profited from the knowledge and goods of the American Indian populations who lived there, and certainly desired to develop mutually profitable relationships with them. Overall, this more cooperative relationship helped preserve American Indian cultures and led to alliances between the French and different American Indian nations. These alliances benefited the French in later wars with the British.

The British were more interested in establishing permanent communities in North America. Jamestown, Britain’s first successful settlement, was economically based. The relationship with the American Indians turned hostile as the number of British settlers increased and they sought to occupy more land for tobacco production. In New England, many of the settlers were Pilgrims or Puritans seeking free expression of their religious beliefs. Here, the British also disrupted American Indian societies and established a relationship of hostility between the groups as the British not only encroached on the native people’s land for farming but they also began to spread smallpox, killing a large percentage of the indigenous populations. Large-scale conflicts broke out; many British and American Indian villages were destroyed during Metacom’s War, but it was the American Indian tribes who were largely displaced or eliminated. The British, like the Spanish, resorted to violence to secure their own economic ends and irrevocably disrupted American Indian societies as a result.
Overall, where Europeans sought permanent settlements or economic gain at the expense of the forced labor of others, American Indian societies experienced population decline, upheaval, and ultimately, threats to their traditional lands and traditions.

Dogs are popular domesticated animals. The four-legged animals are mammals and are the first domesticated animals. Dogs come under a subspecies of wolves. Their scientific name is Canis lupus familiars and is omnivores. A dog has sharp teeth to eat flesh. Their diet includes rice, meat, bread etc. Dogs mainly eat meat; however, once the dog is trained, it consumes vegetarian food as well. Dogs can also be found in the wild in the continents of Africa and Australia. Pet dogs live in a kennel. Many dogs that don’t have owners become street dogs. A group of adult dogs are called a pack.

They have sharp eyes and have a heightened sense of smell. A dog has a wet nose to take in scent chemicals. They have tails that are of different shapes, and they wag when they are excited and happy. A dog has a robust cardiovascular system, and they can sprint very fast. Dogs are of different size, weight and colour. A dog can hear sound frequencies of 67-45,000 Hz, which is more than a human. Thus they can hear extremely high pitched sounds. The lifespan for a dog is 10-13 years depending on the breed. They are covered in a coat of fur to keep them warm. Dogs howl to attract attention and is like its own homing beacon. Dogs bark when they sense danger and to discipline their puppies. They bite when they feel startled.


 
There are different breeds of dogs such as Labradors, Golden Retrievers, German Shepherds, Bulldog, Pug, Poodle, Dalmatians and many more. Since a dog is a mammal, it gives birth to puppies. Smaller dogs can give birth to up to four, whereas larger dogs can give birth to up to six puppies. The female dog provides them with milk until they are old enough.

Dogs have been a companion to man for almost 40,000 years. Dogs perform many functions. They are trained and are one of the popular pets to have. Since dogs have a sharp vision and a heightened sense of smell, they can sense fear and danger from long distance. They can sense feelings. A dog protects its owners and is used by police forces around the world for this purpose. Dogs are also used while hunting. They are used to pull the sledges in snowy countries of Siberia and Greenland.

Most of all, a dog can improve a person’s well being. The presence of a dog is said to have many therapeutic effects on a person. They help to reduce stress, anxiety and a sense of loneliness. Dogs also improve a person’s physical health and being more active. They also help to aid disabled people. Over time, they understand the nature of their owners very well and comfort them when they are upset. A dog can fend for itself and is strong enough to threaten intruders. They are the most loyal and obedient animals. They look after their owners and make sure that they are safe. A dog is rightfully called a man’s best friend.
Hay Fever was a comical play with a strong message. The actors throughout this play steadily used others to gain their own attention. The message this play left behind after many laughs was do not use others, plain and simple.

The space was a well-constructed thrust stage however, the stage was not raised off the ground and the seats appeared to be mobile which lead to the belief that this is an Environmental Theater. As for the layout of the stage, there was a couch and a table in center stage for the first two acts, a door to the unseen outside front of the house upstage right, there were two large double doors upstage center leading to the backyard garden, and a raised floor upstage left containing a piano, a bookcase and a door leading to the home library. Stage left there was a half spiral staircase that lead up to the second floor which had a painting and lights that extended across to stage right. The second floor also contained the bedrooms for the house but the doors were not in sight. The detail was greater than expected: the hardwood floor throughout the first floor seemed to be genuine, the actual bookcase filled with real books not stage books, and the extremely large double doors with translucent glass and floral designs lead to the Garden, which featured an array of plants behind the doors. The entire space was well lit for the duration of the play; the stage took place inside the Bliss’ home so the bright lighting added a confortable feel to the inside of the house. The theatre was nearly sold out; it was hard to spot an empty seat, including the balcony and lower level seating. The crowd contained nearly an even amount of student audience members and senior citizens; there was few in the audience that appeared middle aged.

The play was well cast, the entire Bliss family did a great job showing how overly dramatic and deceitful the family had become. Each actor portrayed their character accurately; there were no standouts that didn’t match the character. Each visitor in the first act seemed to be feasible as far as the possibility of a relationship was concerned. All of the family members acted genuine. There was one actor who stood out as a perfect fit for his character. Taylor Rascher played Simon Bliss and played him perfectly. Rascher’s character Simon was a young man who was dramatic and romantic so much so it was almost to the point of ridiculousness. Rascher stole the show in the first act when he was romancing with Michelle Luz, who plays Myra Arundel. Rascher was displaying his love for Michelle Luz (Myra) in the most dramatic of fashions; he was playing the Bliss’ game of pretending to be in complete love with someone and then a moment later change his mind. Rascher was proclaiming his love with elegant speeches and coddling up next to her and eventually kissing her. Rascher made this scene particularly hilarious because he was completely over the top in typical Bliss fashion. Of course, all of this was for naught because Luz ended up kissing Joe Hubbard’s character David Bliss in act two and also Rascher proclaimed his engagement to Caitlin Stagemoller’s character, Jackie Coryton. Rascher made his voice more shrill and audible to appear to be more dramatic and create more attention for himself. In the same way, Rascher used grander gestures with his arms (flailing, waving, etc.) to cause a more dramatic effect.

The play was well interpreted by all whom were involved. Steven Wrentmore, the Director, kept the 1920’s feel by dressing in all 1920’s costumes and everyone spoke as if they were living at the time. Michelle Bisbee, the scene designer, made the inside of the home appear 1920’s because everything was grand. The Bliss’ home was grand with the spiral staircase, the very large backdoors, and the eloquent piano. The actors’ mannerisms seemed like they were portraying a silent film. In older movies, actors seemed very dramatic and had flamboyant actions to prove so; the actors in Hay Fever shared the same feel for the dramatics. As far as Stephen Wrentmore’s directing goes, he did an excellent job. The scene when Chris Karl (Richard) and Caitlin Stegemoller (Jackie) enter and are left alone to make small talk with each other is the best pertaining to directing. The two actors used the entire stage in this scene and were very awkward with one another. This was Wrentmore’s doing because you could tell he had a vision for this scene in particular because it seemed very crisp and well rehearsed. The actors played it perfect with the excessively long pauses in their awkward small talk that the crowd was laughing through the entire scene. It appeared that Wrentmore instructed the actors, to keep their pauses longer than natural to heighten the awkward tension in the scene, which made it brilliant.

The blocking throughout the play worked with the floor plan very well. All of the blocking worked seamlessly; the actors were never out of sight or in awkward positioning (ex. turned around, talking to someone behind them while face forward, etc.) even during the second act in the first scene while all eight actors were on set. One part of the set that stood out was the staircase, it is obviously very large, but the way Owen Virgin followed Megan Davis up the stairs was seamless. They both walked up the stairs with footsteps I unison, and Owen Virgin was so focused on every detail of Davis, it almost screamed out how much he was infatuated with her.

The artistic intent of this production was to entertain, and it fulfilled that intent completely. The entire audience was laughing during most of the production, I was even laughing out loud, which doesn’t happen very often. Every interaction between the characters was comical at one point during the production. An example of this playing out would be in the second act when Rascher busts through the door and proclaims his engagement. The only purpose of this is to entertain and entertain it did. The actors seemed natural moving along with their blocking and engaging with each other on stage. There was no point at which it was confusing why someone moved here or there, every movement made sense.

The overall mood that was portrayed by the combination of lighting, sound, set, and costumes was very light and cheerful; at no point did the mood drop to something darker or saddening. This is common with many comedies because it becomes hard to laugh if the overall mood is down and dreary. The theatre space was very personal. First of all, it takes place in someone’s home so it is immediately personal. Also, the stage was built into the crowd just about so the audience felt like they were living the action out as it unfolded. The scenic design showed the audience without a doubt it was the 1920’s, with the barometer on the wall, the staircase, the piano, and the lights upstairs. However, there was little evidence to show what location the play took place.

All of the costumes were well designed for the appropriate characters. Adam Espinoza did a fine job of showing how these people were all upper class with nice dresses and suits and tuxes, even when they were home alone with only each other as company. Megan Davis’ costumes represented her personality very well by drawing all attention to her with bright colors and silk-like texture. As far as the lighting goes, there were no changes to the lighting during the play, except for at the end of each act. The lighting emphasized a bright and cheerful mood throughout the play.

This production was definitely representational because it doesn’t break the fourth wall into the audience. The actors never had any asides or soliloquies that were directed toward audience. The set and lighting were representational due to the realistic feel throughout the house, everything was relatable to the average person. The Bliss’ home looked like an ordinary home from the 1920’s.

The overall message seemed to be: do not mislead people or play games with their emotions, or they will leave you. This was most clear during act three when Luz, Karl, Stegemoller, and Virgin were all discussing how uncomfortable they all had felt the day before in the house and decided to leave as soon as possible. This was due to the way the Bliss’ had romantic engagements just to get attention for themselves and did not care about the feelings of the people they were hurting.
Buried Child is a play by Sam Shepard first premiered in 1978 at the Magic Theatre in San Francisco, California. Sam Shepard won the 1979 Pulitzer Prize for Drama because of this play. The play was performed on Broadway from April 30, 1996 through June 30, 1996 at Brooks Atkinson Theatre.

This play is fairly recent and takes cuts at American Culture, more specifically, the American Dream. Throughout the play, everyone is constantly reminiscing on how great they were and now they are all have fallen from their former glory. For instance, Tilden, the eldest son, used to be an All-American Halfback with a bright future and now he is in his forties and living with his parents with no family of his own. Audiences of today would be able to relate to this play and how people can show promise early in their life and one event can change it all for the worse. If anything the audience could relate to a family that is growing old and growing apart. There are many problems in this family that still plague families today, even as basic as infidelity. The plot structure of this play is Episodic. There is a clear linear story of events. The action of the play occurs in the first Act at lunchtime, in the spring due to the heavy rain. The second Act takes place on the same day as the first at dinnertime, and the third Act takes place the following morning. The entire play takes place inside the family’s house in Illinois. The climate within the play is against the American stereotypes of having everything your heart desires and live happily ever after. It has a dark aspect which suggests all families have secrets and no one is truly happy.

If I were to produce this play myself, there would be one simple setting, the house. Within the house is a staircase leading up out of sight, a couch and TV and a kitchen on the other side of the stairs. The needs for costumes are fairly straightforward, everyone in the play wears one costume the entire play except the mother who changes from Act 2 to Act 3. The lighting for the first 2 Acts is simply giving the illusion of rainy, dark, dreary day, and for the final Act it is a bright morning, signaling a new beginning. The sound is an important aspect of this play, the first two Acts are very sad and hopeless with the sounds of constant raining, the final Act begins with the chirping of birds singing their morning songs to brighten up the mood of the play.

If I had to choose one character I would personally play it would be Tilden. Tilden is the lost son of the family who has come back home after getting into “trouble” in New Mexico. They never say exactly what trouble he gets into, just that he goes to jail and has to return home. He states that he felt like a foreigner and he was alone during his time in New Mexico. I choose Tilden because he is very troubled by the loss of his child, and he never recovers. This character would be a challenge for anyone to portray due to his severe emotional issues. If was to act, I would choose a character who would be the biggest challenge, and Tilden is that character.

All Tilden wants in this play is to have his old life back, everything used to be perfect for him. He was a bright, attractive, football player that had his own son who he adored. He would walk around all day with it in his hands singing to it and telling it stories. There was a slight problem; the baby was born out of wedlock. Not only out of wedlock, but Tilden conceived the child with his own mother, Haile. Tilden’s father who was still married to Haile, drowned the baby and buried it’s body in the fields in the back, never to be found without Tilden’s knowlege. The family made a pact to never talk about the incident ever again. Tilden never was the same after that, he would wander around in the fields in which he used to sing to his child. He was empty, always staring off into the distance and never had much to say. He just wanted his old life back and he didn’t know what to do to get it back, so he did nothing. Tilden’s objective is to be happy. He has no purpose in life, no friends, no son, and a family that disrespects him. He has no idea how he can be happy without his son so instead, he stares into nothing.

If he is to ever become happy or normal again he will need to start by leaving his family and becoming independent. He is treated like a child by his mother, despite being over 40 years of age. His father gives him useless tasks to do such as fetch him water because he is old and can barely stand. His brother treats him like an idiot and relishes in the fact that Tilden has long faded from his golden boy past so he can get some respect from his family. His family constantly holds him back and he never has a chance to grow and become his own man. He is living in the past and he needs to let that dark past go. There is one problem; he never wants to leave his baby boy who is buried in the field behind their house. He can never leave until he finds his boy who was taken from him.

Tilden acts like a Golden Retriever. If you look into his eyes they seem lifeless and there is not much going on. He obeys the orders of his father to fetch him this and that. He is coddled by his mother and treated like he is still a puppy, never allowed outside to wander. He is abused by his brother and Tilden despises him. Yet he stays around the house just for the opportunity to run away and search for his beloved bone that someone stole and buried a long time ago. The Retriever is very loyal and will not wrong you but if you treat him wrong, you will lose him forever.

The above picture is taken in the Mojave's airplane graveyard. It shows planes that at the time when they were built, were the top of their class, the best technology had to offer. Now they just sit there neglected and waiting to die, long forgotten by the people who once loved them. This is a very good representation of Tilden. Tilden was once an All American Football player with a bright future, no telling how high he would fly. Stories were written in the newspaper of how great he was going to become. Now he is back in his mother’s house with his family all rotting away next to him.


Tilden is an athletically built man who is in his forties, with a terrible haircut from his brother, and looks like the typical farm boy. He was known as a very intelligent man growing up, the smartest of his brothers. He hasn’t been that way recently, he has been quiet, keeps to himself, and obeys orders. This is a man who conceived a child with his own mother only to have it killed by his father and hidden from him so he is troubled to say the least. In the play Shepard states, “Something about his is profoundly burned-out and displaced.” (18) He acts like a child. Wanders in the back field all day pretending he has no responsibilities, such as taking care of his father and getting a job of his own. He cannot support himself, he tried when he lived in New Mexico, but failed and is currently living with his parents. He is in a deep dark depression that he may never recover from.

This character would present anyone who would try to play him with a great deal of challenges. The most difficult of all would be to represent all of his aforementioned emotional and psychological problems accurately and to a point where the audience would have apathy for you. Throughout most of the play he is very short with his responses and he stares off appearing to be thinking nothing. But he has multiple points where he expresses deep emotion. Such as when his mother threatens to kick him out of the house again and all of the sudden he goes from a long stare to a slow soft sob. Also, when Bradley chases him out of the house he freaks out and starts crying and runs out of the house not to be seen until the end of the play. These emotional spikes would be hard to create because there is no emotional build up, he goes from zero to crying in no time, that takes extreme emotional discipline from the actor.

There is some research needed by the actor to understand this character. He seems simple but he is actually very complicated. The actor would need to observe a football star in the late 1970’s and see how that person would carry themself. Also, the actor would need to go to Illinois and try to recreate an accent or movement by a farmer. Research would be needed to see what a man acts like if he were to tragically lose his only son. Lastly, they would have to try to act like a former All American mixed with a man who has no hope for his future.

I noted every single detail throughout this play I could think of to help me understand what the playwright was trying to convey to his audience. It helped me have a greater respect of the theatrical process that goes into every single play. I noticed little things like how lighting and sound have a huge effect on the setting and mood of the play. I would not have notice these things if I wasn’t instructed to watch carefully for these details as I studied the play.
In Crossing the Rubicon: The Decline of the American Empire at he End of the Age of Oil, there are three main points where Mr. Ruppert tries to blame the entire tradjety of September 11, 2001, better known as 9/11, on the acting Vice President at the time, Dick Cheney. At first glance this seems to be a bold if not insane accusation against the Vice President of the United States of America, but Ruppert does make a few points that will make you think.

The first point of Ruppert is Dick Cheney had the Ability to pull off this plan if he wanted to. According to Ruppert, Cheney was acting as Commander in Chief on 9/11 due to the terrible threat on the United States. This means he was in control and was calling the shots. Ruppert also has reason to believe that Cheney was leading a “completely separate chain of Command & Control via the Secret Service, assuring the paralysis of Air Force response on 9/11. The Secret Service has the technology to see the same radar screens the FAA sees in real time.” (Kane) Ruppert claims that President Bush was kept out of a leadership position on purpose by the Secret Service men around him as he was reading to school children the morning of 9/11. He also claims that the Secret Service, acting through Cheney, had control over the FAA, Airforce (including the Fighter Jets), and President Bush. One question I would ask Ruppert is “Why?”

Why would Cheney and the Secret Service go through all of this trouble to attack his own country? The answer, according to Ruppert, is simply Oil. Cheney’s plan was to start a never-ending war to take control of the Middle Eastern oil and use it for American purposes. Ruppert claims that there was a peak in the oil reserves around the world from 2000-2007. After 2007, oil will become more rare and extremely more expensive. "By way of confirmation, people in and close to the oil industry are reporting that increased drilling is not resulting as yet in significantly increased supply." (Ruppert) Upon hearing of this news, Cheney had to go into action. He just needed the right time to plan his so called “Attack”.

According to Ruppert, the “right time” was any time that Cheney chose because as of May 8, 2001, Dick Cheney was put into control of all training exercises of all branches of military and government. This means he could set up “fake” hijackings by calling them training situations just in case anyone would ever want to hijack airplanes and fly them into buildings. Cheney did call for these training simulations, except he did it on the morning of 9/11. Also, Cheney called for another training simulation that send all the fighters from D.C. into Canada and Alaska to train just incase an attack came from Russia. This meant that the Air Force could not do anything to prevent the hijacked airplanes from crashing into anything they pleased. Also, the Secret Service had control over the FAA flight path screens and put fake hijacked airplanes in the air to confuse air traffic control. At one point the FAA thought there was 11 hijacked airplanes.

All of this was put into motion by Dick Cheney and people taking orders from Cheney. He is guilty for singlehandedly putting this plan into motion and being successful. The scary part if these accusations by Ruppert are true, is that Bush and Cheney were re-elected the following term.
American’s were outraged about the new Senate Bill 1070 and how it was going to lead to racial profiling in Arizona. Some supported some opposed, for the most part of the citizens of Arizona, roughly 70%, supported the law. Most say the main difference with the law is law enforcement is now required to ask for documentation of legal United States Citizenship. According to President Obama’s website, there is not much change with the enactment of this bill. There were already laws in place that law enforcement could check for the documentation of legal residency during a normal encounter (ex. traffic stop) and there was a law that has been in effect since 1940 making it a misdemeanor if a person is not carrying the correct documentation. (Jones, 2010) This law is great and all, for nationalism and protecting the borders and all that “Yay America!!” stuff, but what happens when it affects legal Mexican Americans in everyday life? Are they not allowed some of the same freedoms as other Americans because they happen to be of Mexican or foreign descent? I interviewed 3 legal Mexican Americans about this subject and asked if it added to the already prevalent issue of active racism in Arizona, and even around the campus of the University of Arizona. After interviewing my fellow Americans, I arrived at a conclusion; I believe that the enactment of Arizona’s Senate Bill 1070 has increased the active racism toward Mexican Americans.

Every person I had interviewed had said they noticed a dramatic increase in the active racism towards them and people around them. I was surprised to see such an agreement with the people I interviewed because I have not realized any racism at all. Then again, that might just prove the fact that there is an increase, I just have not noticed it because I benefit from it. I never am asked for papers, yelled at to speak English, or looked down upon for being white. So I would not notice a difference unless it was staring me in the face.

Let’s begin with the first interview I conducted. One of my friends named Hector (a pseudonym); Hector is a sophomore at the University of Arizona and I have known him for about a month and we became good friends since. When asked if I could interview him on this subject, he was excited to share his thoughts and experiences on the topic. Hector is, of course, a legal resident of the United States; he was born and raised in the State of Arizona so he is a good subject for this topic. Hector’s experiences are vital because he resided in Arizona long before anyone spoke of Senate Bill 1070.

Before I could even utter the first question Hector calmly states “You wanna know about the increase in [active] racism after the 1070 bill? I have a story that may interest you.” I quickly interrupt him and explain the difference between active and active racism before he could even start. I wanted to see his understanding of active and active racism throughout this story. He claims he already knew the difference and gives me a few examples and I agree that he did indeed previously understand the differences. One note before he starts, Hector is known to add some “color” to his stories so some facts may be exaggerated, but the main points are still valid. Hector finally begins, and I paraphrase (removing most of the expletives):


“I was driving to work one day after chilling with my girlfriend for a couple hours and she was in my car with me and we were already running late. You know how that goes [wink]. Anyway, I may have been speeding slightly but I didn’t want to be late, and I still had to drop Selena [the girlfriend, and a pseudonym] off at her house. Then I pass a cop driving the opposite direction, and he gives one look at me, and whips the car around and pulls me over. As he comes to my window, he was being a big douche bag [ex. he was being very short and stern with Hector]. He asks for all of my shit [documents] and is very specific to ask for my citizenship papers. After ignoring my apology for speeding because I was running late for work, he goes into his car and I guess he was checking my documents. I swear he was in his car for like 30 minutes then he comes out and explains he is giving me a ticket and I need to leave for work earlier and have better time management, needless to say, I didn’t make it to work on time.”

I sat and thought of the significance of this story, it was sad to see how in America, the land of the free, there was this law that strictly was aimed at Mexican Americans. I get that there is a problem, but to single out one race to remove from this Nation is clearly unjust. The fact that seventy percent of Arizona’s residents agree with the law and think it is fair just shows the prevalence of institutionalized racism. Every day these citizens are looked at differently just by the color of their skin, and there are laws allowing that. In America, racism is so prevalent because white people are scared that Mexican Americans will take over the country and moreover, take over their supremacy of the nation. These laws are clearly aimed to preserve white power and hold back the advancement of the race. Every single one of the people I have interviewed are some of the hardest working people I have met. If you ask me, America could use more hard working people so we should be accepting them not turning them away. “Economic disparities show no signs of dissipating. The anti-immigrant backlash, which is in no small part an attack on all persons (immigrants and citizens) of Mexican ancestry in the United States…” (Johnson 428) This statement by Kevin Johnson shows how even to this day, whites are doing everything they can to make sure the economic disparities do not dissipate. Whites are using their power and money to enact laws and put down the Mexican race. This, if nothing else, just goes to show how active racism is increasing, whites want Mexicans out, and they are doing everything in their power to do so.

My second interview wasn’t nearly as exciting of a story. My friend Juan, who was born in Mexico, then legally moved up here with his family and then started attending U of A. Juan told me mostly about his childhood and education. He stated mostly how he took the one-year English class because all he knew was Spanish and he felt that it took away from his heritage that he was forced to learn our language or he would not survive. Then after this law has passed, he feels that not only are they removing his heritage, they are removing his people.

The way Juan felt as a child was a lot like the way Piri Thomas felt. They both didn’t understand was it wasn’t good to be whom they were when they were born. “what’s wrong with not being white? What’s so wrong with being tregeno?” (Thomas 68) Thomas did not understand the reason for this racism against him. He couldn’t understand that one race put all others down so much that it made him beat his brother until he was spitting blood back into his face. Juan was not so much angered but disappointed at the way this country was, taking away his culture and then trying to remove his people, just because they were not white. This new law in Arizona only adds to the problem of active racism. White America already thinks their way of life is not good enough to be taught in our schools, now white America has decided that simply they are not good enough to live in our country.

The final interview. Interviewing Tyler was a blast he was a very funny kid, he had me laughing the whole time, which made it very hard to take notes. He was a fourth generation Mexican American, and the first of his family to go to college. His parents taught him well that life is harder in America for a Mexican. Margaret E. Montoya states a similar experience: “Her lessons about combing, washing, and doing homework frequently relayed a different message: be prepared, because you will be judged by your skin color, your names, your accents. They will see you as ugly, lazy dumb and dirty.” (Montoya 436) Montoya’s experience is very closely related to that of Tyler’s childhood, his parents would try their very best to instill good qualities of hard work and determination into their child, because they knew he was going to need it. Tyler has done well for himself, he is an honors student and he has a 3.5 GPA, he works very hard to be the best he can be, but is still seen as inferior. Tyler’s job just became harder, after the passing of this bill, all of the Mexicans are presumed to be illegal until proven innocent. Thanks to this new law, upon first sight he is looked at as a nuisance, a criminal, and a foreigner. However, he is an excellent student, a volunteer who donates ten hours a week of his time at homeless shelters, and a resident, whose family has been on this land longer that John McCain has been alive. The fact that this racism still happens today, and is seemingly getting worse, just adds to what Montoya’s mother taught her “be prepared, because you will be judged” (Montoya 436)

These three people have many things in common with all Americans, including; they want to live their life, be successful, and be judged on their effort and accomplishments like everyone else. These are people just trying to live the American Dream, which is just made harder by this law that has been passed which just increases the active racism in this country. The 1070 law has done it’s job: making it harder for Mexican Americans to be successful and be equal to whites, through increasing active racism.